Crediting a natural person as a named inventor of an Artificial Intelligence invention is problematic due to the poorly defined areas of responsibility when working with an AI system. Very few AI systems are cuncstructed from scratch but instead are generally constructed using a preexisting framework such as Keras, Tensorflow or CNTK. The constructed network then has to be trained, generating a set of weights that specify the trained network. This requires the definition and collection of a dataset. Often, the training dataset is more important to the network's success than the specific structure or algorithm chosen. The problem under consideration must be formulated in a manner amendable to AI calculation, fed to the AI, and the output interpreted. On many large problems, each of these phases may be handled by sizable teams rather than an individual. Distributing the credit for an outcome amongst such a substantial number of contributors will likely prove challenging at best. 

Even if we arrive at an equitable distribution of credit, any invention by an AI constructed on a pre-existing framework further complicates the issue. Should the framework creators be entitled to any share of the patent? If so, how should we handle frameworks created as open source projects? Even overcoming that hurdle, running large AI projects requires a substantial amount of computing power. In the event that such computing resources are distributed, how should the owners of those resources be accredited?

As the field matures and AI tools become more standardized, these questions will become easier to answer, but for now assigning credit to natural persons involved in an AI invention is likely to prove difficult to handle in the general case. While case-by-case judgement is certainly feasible, it is unlikely to be scalable. As AI becomes more prevalent, such judgements will create an ever-increasing burden on the USPTO, creating a race between maturity and ubiquity in the AI field. Perhaps ultimately the complexity of the task renders it best suited to an expert system Artificial Intelligence. 