Kenneth Matthews: Daniel and Work

Matthews, Kenneth. (2018). Daniel and Work. Retrieved from https://www.theologyofwork.org/old-testament/daniel

Kenneth Matthews posits that the book of Daniel can serve as a guide for people attempting to reconcile a Christian life with the workplace. After Nebuchadnezzar conquered Israel, he took its citizens into captivity. Youths such as Daniel were placed in a Babylonian administrative training program, which included cultural conditioning designed to inculcate Babylonian values in the Jewish trainees. While Daniel adhered to his own religious traditions, he also sought to work with his supervisor, seeking to establish mutually agreeable terms. The author suggests that, like Daniel, Christians in a secular world should maintain their faith while living a demonstrably Christin life, but should simultaneously respect their coworkers and look for areas of mutual benefit.

While interpreting Nebuchadnezzar's dream, Daniel gave the king some truly unpoleasant news. Only Daniel's humility allowed him to survive predicting the king's death and the ruin of all his works. The author points out that Daniel was humble even in the grasp of divine inspiration, claiming that Christians should be at least so humble when relying on our very human interpretation of God's will. Daniel's humility lead him to such status in the Babylonian court that the astrologers began a disinformation campaign, culminating in Nebuchadnezzar's direct command to worship his effigy. This contravention of the Jewish belief in the primacy of Yahweh was nonnegotiable. Daniel and his compatriots opted for death rather than betrayal of their integrity. Matthews uses this to illustrate the necessity for a Christian to be willing to sacrifice everything in the pursuit of a godly life when negotiation fails. 

Eventually, of course, Daniel is delivered from jeopardy and Babylon is thrown down just as it had reduced Israel in days past. The author interprets this as a hopeful sign: that by persisting in their faith, Christians can weather the trials and tribulations of the workplace without compromising their faith. 